# SWEN90016 Group Assignment

## 5.3 Delivery Approach, SDLC
+ The Agile Scrum method is chosen as the SDLC model for this project. 

+ **Requirement Stability**
	- The agile model responses rapidly for changing in requirements, which enables quick adjustments to changes in requirements. Changes are inevitable, therefore, ability to handle changes will reduce the risk that this project off tracks from the original plan.

+ **Participation**
	- Higher participation of the work, for instance frequent team meetings and client meetings are enabled by the model. Hence, customers, developers and testers can interact with each other for conquering problems of the project constantly to make sure the high product quality.

+ **Scrum**
	- Development of the software will be implemented through five sprints, each of two weeks. 

+ This was chosen with reference to the de facto industry standards. It is shorter than the PMP Sprint as the team deemed it necessary to review work more frequently, due to team member inexperience in the development processes. During each of these Sprints, chunks of working software will be developed relating to some of the identified desired features, as explained in the previous section. 

+ The team plans to manage and control the project through weekly team meetings which would allow members to raise any concerns encountered and give a report about their progress.


## Scrum
+ In Scrum, features are written from the perspective of the end-user(user stories)
+ Product backlogs: The collection of all these user stories

+ release planning
+ burndown chart




## 6.1 Roles and Responsiblities

+ **Scrum Master(Muthuwahandi Jayan Eranda De Silva)**
	- arranges regular meetings, monitores the work being done and facilitates release planning. He makes sure that the whole project is progressing smoothly and every member of the team has the tools they need to get their job done. Jayan is also responsible for resolving impediments within the team and insulating the team from external interference. 

+ **Product Owner(Zhuolun Lang)**
	- is responsible for building and managing the product backlog, he helps making sure that right features are made into the product backlog. Ensuring every team member understands user stories in the product backlogs and providing a clear guidance on when and what features should be delivered next are key jobs for him. Lang sets the direction of the whole product.

+ **Subject Matter Expert(Yingzi Song)**
	- deeply understand the language(s) that are used in the project
	- strategies
	- problem solver and techinical expertise

+ **Dev Team Members(Muthuwahandi Jayan Eranda De Silva, Zhuolun Lang, Yingzi Song, Yuming Shen and Wenhao Zhang)**:
	- The responsibility of all five members of the development team is to deliver a functional element or chunk of the overall product at the end of each sprint cycle.

	- Estimate the effort required in completing their tasks.
	- Achieve the goals defined for each sprint.
	- Learn to write user stories for product features and divide them into smaller tasks.
	- Identify any impediments to the progress of the project and report the same to the ScrumMaster.
	- Attend daily scrum meetings and report the completed and planned tasks for each day.
	- Collaborate effectively with other Development team members.
	- building the system, testing debuging and adjusting
	- maintaining
	- consultations







