## Lecture 2: Project Management Plan & SDLC’s

1. Understand what a Process is and its relevance to Project Management.
+ **Process**
  - Definition: A process is a series of **progressive and interdependent** steps by which an end is attained 
+ Project Management
  - A process as it defines a series of tasks to deliver a specific outcome
  
+ System Development Lifecycle(SDLC)
  - A process for planning, creating, testing and deploying an information system
  - SDLC can be composed of hardware, software or both



2. Understand what a Project Management Plan (PMP) is and when it should be used.

+ Project Management Plan
  - A PMP is a formal approved document that defines how the project is executed, monitored and controlled
  - a summary or a detailed doc that is **owned, controlled and populated**  
    by the Project Manager and is used throughout the project.
  - can provide needed information across key components of the project

+ Project Charter vs. PMP
  - A Project Charter is a **summary project proposal** to secure **approval for the project goals and terms**  
  (useful as part of Business Case).
  - A PMP is an approved document showing **how to achieve the approved project goals / benefits** and provides the **details on how to execute and manage the project**  
  (used as part of mobilisation and on-going management of the project).

3. Understand the components of a Project Management Plan.
+ Project Information
  - Executive Summary
  - Financial Authority to proceed
  - Key Stakeholders 
  - Scope
  - Delivery approach / SDLC - Waterfall or Agile
  - Resources / People
  - Key Milestones  里程碑
  - Project Budget
  - Business Value (Financial & Non-Financial Benefits)
  - Lessons learned applied to this project
  - Constraints (time, process)
+ Project Governance
  - Roles and Responsibilities
  - Mandatory Project Planning / Key Additional Activities
    - Schedule 
    - Risk Management
    - Cost Estimation
    - Quality Assurance
    - Configuration Management (Change Management)


4. Understand what a **Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)** is and the advantages / disadvantages of various models.

+ Activities
  - Requirements gathering 
  - System / Architectural Design
  - Implementation / coding 
  - Integration
  - Testing
  - Delivery and Release - Deployment
  - Maintenance
  
+ |Formal Processes|Agile Processes|
  |-----|-----|
  |- Waterfall | - Extreme Programming|
  |- Incremental | - Scrum|
  |- V-Model      |- Kanban|

+ **Waterfall**
  - |Advantages|Disadvantages|
    |----|-----|
    |Simple and easy to understand and use|Difficult to accommodate change after the process in underway|
    |Easy to manage (rigidity)| Difficult to integrate risk management due to uncertainty|
    |Phases are processed and completed one at a time| One phase must be completed before moving on to the next|
    |Documentation available at the end of each phase|Unclear requirements lead to confusion|
    |Works well for projects where requirements are very well understood and remain stable|Clients approval is in the final stage|

+ **Incremental Model**
  - In incremental model the whole requirement is divided into various releases. Multiple cycles take place, making the life cycle a multi-waterfall cycle. Cycles are divided up into smaller, more easily managed modules.
  - |Advantages|Disadvantages|
    |----|-----|
    |Each release delivers an operational product | More resources may be required|
    |Less costly to change the scope/requirements | More management attention is required|
    |Customers can respond to each build | Defining / partitioning the increments is difficult and often not lcear|
    |Initial product delivery is faster | Each phase of an iteration is rigid with no overlaps
    |Customers get important functionality early | Problems may occur at the time of final integration
    |Easier to test and debug during smaller iterations |

+ **V-Model**
  - extension of the waterfall model
  - try to do some testing after each phase and try to identify any problem earlier so that they can fix problems before going to the next phase
  - |Advantages|Disadvantages|
    |----|-----|
    |Simple and easy to understand and use | Very rigid process like the waterfall model|
    |Each phase has specific deliverables and well defined objectives and goals|Little flexibility and adjusting scope is difficult and expensive|
    |High chance of success over waterfall model due to the development of test plans early on during life cycle | Software developed during implementation phase, no early prototypes|
    |Works well for small projects when requirements are easily understood| No clear path for problems found during testing|
    |  | Changes in later stage cause test documentation across all stages to be changed|


5. Understand what Agile is and its origins.
+ why Agile is attractive
  - ever changing global world
  - low tech cost
  - etc.
+ Agile
  - The ability to create and respond to change in order to succeed in an uncertain and turbulent environment.


6. Understand the Agile framework.
+ Primary elements of the Agile framework include:
  - Manifesto
    - individual and interactions over processes and tools
    - working software over comprehensive doc
    - customer collaboration over contract negotiation
    - responding to change over following a plan
  - 12 Key Principles
    - ...
  - Kanban
    - Signboard/Billboard: to do; doing and done
  - eXtreme Programming (XP)
  - Scrum


7. Understand Scrum – Roles, Ceremonies and Artefacts.
http://www.scrumcn.com/agile/scrum-knowledge-library/scrum.html#tab-id-1 

+ Scrum
  - Scrum is an agile process that allows us to focus on delivering the highest business value in the shortest time 
  - rapidly and repeatedly inspect actual working software
  - priorities
  - 2-4 weeks
+ Key Characteristics
  - Self-organising teams
  - Product progresses in a series of focused sprints
  - Requirements are captured as items in a list of product backlog
  - Scrum is one of the agile processes – the one most widely used, discussed and debated
  - Time frame is contained to a manageable size (weeks or months)

+ Scrum framework
  - roles
    - Product owner
      - Defines the features of the product
      - Decides on release date and content
      - Is responsible for the Benefits / Profitability of the product (ROI)
      - Prioritises features according to market value 
      - Adjusts features and priority every iteration, as needed  
      - Accepts or reject work results

    - Scrum Master
      - Represents management to the project
      - Responsible for enacting Scrum values and practices
      - Removes impediments / road blocks
      - Ensures that the team is fully functional and productive
      - Enables close cooperation across all roles
      - Shields the team from external interferences
      - Is a member & active participant of the Scrum Team

    - Team
      - Typically 5 - 9 people
      - Cross-functional:
      - Programmers, testers, user experience designers, business representatives etc.
      - Members should be full-time – some exceptions
      - Co-located (physically or virtually)
      
      
   - Ceremonies
    - Sprint planning
    - Sprint review
    - Sprint retrospective  回顾
    - Daily stand-ups
   
   
   - Artifacts
    - Product backlog
    - Sprint backlog
    - Burndown charts
  


8. Understand advantages / disadvantages of Agile.

+ |Advantages|Disadvantages|
  |----|-----|
  |Customer satisfaction by rapid, continuous delivery of usable software|Difficult to assess the effort required at the beginning|
  |People and interactions are emphasised rather than process and tools|Can be very demanding (from traditional approaches) on users time|
  |Continuous attention to technical excellence, good design and quality|Harder for new starters to integrate into the team|
  |Regular adaptation to changing circumstances|Agile is a very different approach – It can be intense for the team|
  |   | Requires experienced resources (which are limited in today’s market)|






9. Understand key questions that will help select which approach to use and some examples.
