+ https://machinelearningmastery.com supervised-and-unsupervised-machine-learning-algorithms/


### Clustering
	- unsupervised
	- the class of an example is not known
	- finding groups of items that are similar 


### Basic Contrasts
+ Exclusive vs. overlapping clustering
	- Can an item be in more than one cluster?
+ Deterministic vs. probabilistic clustering (Hard vs. soft clustering)
	- Can an item be partially or weakly in a cluster?
+ Hierarchical vs. partitioning clustering
	- Do the clusters have subset relationships between them? e.g. nested in a tree?
+ Partial vs. complete
	- In some cases, we only want to cluster some of the data
+ Heterogenous vs. homogenous
	- Clusters of widely different sizes, shapes, and densities
+ Incremental vs. batch clustering
	- Is the whole set of items clustered in one go?

### properties
+ scalability
+ deal with diff types of attributes
+ noise and outliers
+ insentitive to order of input records

### Types of Evaluation
+ Unsupervised
	- Measures the goodness of a clustering structure without respect to external information.
+ Supervised
	- Measures the extent to which the clustering structure discovered by a clustering algorithm matches some external structure.
+ Relative
	- Compares different clusterings or clusters

+ Most common measure is **Sum of Squared Error (SSE)** or **Scatter** 

### Methods
+ Similarity/proximity/closeness
	- Euclidean, Manhattan
	- Discrete values
		- Hamming distance
	- Docs
		- Cosine similarity
		- Jaccard measure
	- Others
		- Correlation
		- Graph-based measures

#### K-means Clustering 38:58
+ select k points to act as seed cluster centroids
+ repeat
	- Assign each instance to the cluster with the nearest centroid
	- Recompute the centroid of each cluster
+ until the centroids don't change
+ Exclusive, deterministic, partitioning, batch clustering method


















